what's up everybody welcome to another
episode of conversations with tom i'm
here with somebody that is truly truly a
good friend of mine i think he's an
extraordinary human being he is a memory
expert a learning expert
dare i say a brain expert the one and
only jim quick what's up dude
i'm great ben thanks for having me yeah
it's good to see you being here you too
man i am super sad there there are many
things that work in my favor with the
lockdown that everybody's under so we're
recording this during the covid19 crisis
uh and being locked down actually has
some advantages like we were talking
about before as an introvert like there
is a part of this that's actually
extraordinary uh it's nice to have you
know a lot of space but man one thing
i've got to say is you make frequent
trips to la and sometimes we actually
get to connect and spend time together
so i'm super bummed uh that won't be
happening until the travel ban is lifted
so
yeah well i appreciate you uh and
everyone who's watching this right now
and listening to this conversation you
and i have spent a good amount of time
together um just one-on-one and there's
so many times i wish i was recording the
conversations that we've had and so this
is uh it's
it's it's it's it was due so thank you
yeah man absolutely i think this would
be a lot of fun so one thing i don't
want to rat out uh what your
name is on skype but i actually am sorry
it's like a combination of some of my
favorite things
um so
the obviously the first two parts i i
understand very well um but the number
does the number mean something
yeah um there are uh 24 hours in a day
and seven days a week
you know so there you go
yeah i love it the reference is there
i've had that uh username on skype since
skype was created so
i mean i've been using it forever it's
been kind of my my identity i'm a fan of
yours also as well
yeah that's something that's uh it is
has been a big part of my life so the
notion of i talk a lot about power so in
my skype name is is the word power and
that's something that's really weird for
a lot of people
it's a word that i think makes some
people deeply uncomfortable but for me i
am i think it all comes down to how you
define it so for me power is the ability
to close your eyes imagine a better
world open your eyes and then make that
world come true and it's like i've said
that so many times maybe it sounds a
little too slick but the the ability to
actually
make real i try to avoid the word
manifest because that word has become
very tainted but the ability to bring
into physical existence something that
nobody else has brought into existence
yet like that that is power and it is
something that anybody can do but it's
all about skill set and i find that
that's like
i don't know if you struggle with this
as somebody who speaks a lot but one
thing that really freaks me out is how
quickly ultra powerful concepts feel
trite
it's like they get repeated because
they're true they rhyme because people
want to find a way to like make it more
memorable or it's an alliteration right
so in your book limitless by the way
everybody run out and get that bad boy
it's [__] incredible we will
certainly talk about that today but you
use that a lot right so you use um
acronyms you use alliteration you use
all kinds of things to make things more
memorable but the problem with that is
through that repetition people begin to
sort of tune out the real power behind
it
and
skill set having
like it has utility it's it is meant to
be like this
it lets you do things like i i [__] man
i really come up empty when i try to
find a more powerful way to say it but
skills let you do things and that is
powerful
and that's like if i really stop and
think about what's the one of the ideas
that i really want to
plant in the cultural subconscious it's
that it's
go out and learn something and that
thing that you learn lets you do things
that are meaningful to you right and
right so architecture becomes the most
obvious example you can build a [__]
house you can build a building you can
build a bridge and you know the
metaphors sort of make themselves with
actually being able to build a bridge
but that stuff doesn't happen by
accident but that you you have to set
like this high degree of intention and
then go about doing it um but i'm beyond
obsessed with that and that to me is
power so this is a whole long way of
saying i think that when i talk about
power it turns some people off
but then in that in fact this is you
talk about this a lot about forgetting
why do you think because this to me is a
key example of that moment where you
actually need to let go of your
preconceived notions around what power
is
in order to actually claim power in your
life
it's that that is very powerful and i
know in a world full of uh short form
social media
and sound bites people
you know sometimes who are trained even
even as you know
writers or bloggers or putting people
putting out content and we have stuff
rehearsed one of the reasons why i can
appreciate this show is just you you
throw people off tilt and they have to
go raw and it becomes real
um i definitely am guilty of using
alliteration and mnemonic devices to
simplify concepts so their people could
could hold on to it
because i feel like if people can't get
their attention around it but then i
also want them to go deep because if
they don't do that actual digging and
the actual work you know that's what
really ingrains it into their their
being into their nervous system you know
through repetition but people don't want
to hear that they they get they they get
think i know that already you know
they'll they get bored of the
fundamentals they want the next thing
that's super sexy like tom really
seriously really what what did it take
to build that company or build that that
your your social media and people don't
want to know that it was like sacrifice
that it was deep work that it was time
like you know when people see all the
glory and
and everything else they don't see that
below that proverbial meme iceberg of
habits and skill development and
everything else
and and so it's it's for me it's always
kind of you know treading that line but
i'm glad in this conversation and i
apologize for the
happening in the middle of manhattan who
has his time we're having this
conversation it's an opportunity to have
even more focus and
and uh well we're training under real
conditions for sure
that's actually a concept that i find
really interesting i was talking to
somebody about this yesterday i forget
right now oh i'm forgetting around you i
actually always feel a little guilty
when i forget [__] around you uh so
the the notion of don't think of things
as performance think of them as an
opportunity to practice
and so i'll do this a lot especially in
impact theory university when we're
filming that what people don't see is
around the camera people are like
scrambling especially in the beginning
we had a lot of technological hurdles
that we were trying to overcome and so
the [__] team is going mad right
they're putting things up on a screen
but they don't they're not sure how it's
working so things are like flashing up
and disappearing the person running the
teleprompter's never done it before so
it's like moving up and down and then
i've got people like walking around
because something like went out and i'm
like i'm gonna keep doing this [__] like
nothing is happening around me and it's
such a powerful moment if you flip
because most people are like [__] this
is performance because we do them live
so there's people here watching live
i've only got one shot we don't edit
this [__] so like [__] and they start
panicking and their performance actually
goes down but if you switch out of this
isn't performance this is just practice
i'm gonna do hundreds of these things so
none of them are sort of the final one
i'm going to just practice like
how zen can i be with like all this
chaos around and then it becomes fun but
it's like when you're thinking [__] i've
got to nail this right here right now
that's when people spiral that's when
your performance goes down because
there's like this huge chunk of your
brain is panicking basically you're
kicking in to anxiety you're in
fight-or-flight mode um so like you said
performing into real-world conditions
and not looking at it is like oh this is
my one chance to do something it's
really powerful
yeah even even writing or having this
conversation before right before we got
on i was like you know i was i'm i i was
saying to your your team like i don't
use skype this is not something that's
new it's i you know i always uh use zoom
and i was it wasn't loading on my main
computer
and i was telling you that intelligence
is context dependent you know i could do
do really well in some areas and in some
areas i have not developed that skill
set
but um do you feel like when you
are on like right now right this is the
recording
do you feel like you've built that skill
set
um well so i on this thing in particular
the ability to stay focused and to let
go i am i am constantly practicing but
yeah i think that i am pretty good at it
i'm pretty good at it though because i
do things in my life all the time that i
look at as practice and one that i'll
give people that
this is
you want to talk about something that's
overlooked and a big part of this is
because
i failed to turn siri off so
that my bad so she may every time i say
h-e-y she's gonna pop up um so
growing up in the 80s video games are
frowned upon parents are like you're
going to rot your brain and all this
stuff and then of course we watched you
know people generate enormous fortunes
it eclipsed the film industry it's just
it has become a beast of such untold
proportions i don't think people
understand really how big video games
are and part of the reason is there's
there's real neurological training
that's going on so i play first-person
shooters or i should say i play a
first-person shooter called destiny 2. i
[__] love it man it is so much fun i
have a ton of fun with lisa and my
sister and we're a fire team it's
amazing so there's that right the family
bonding but the part that i use all the
time is i know on the other end of that
is a 14 year old kid in ohio that wants
to kill me and then tea bag my body
and that is so frustrating and it's so
obnoxious and it [__] literally
lights a fire so in those moments i'm
like this is a perfect time because if
you elevate like if you click into fight
or flight if you let yourself get
panicky then your performance goes down
so it's like
literally every weekend
for
three hours a day i'm in this mode of
i'm practicing staying calm and what
could be a sort of fight-or-flight
moment
the cool thing about video games is like
i'm constantly asking myself okay this
whole practice idea how do you get the
stakes up because when there's no stakes
then you don't have the real emotional
reaction that you would and it's
actually dealing with the emotional
reaction is the very [__] thing you
need to practice so video games are a
rad way of you you have
this completely false sense that there's
actually something that matters here
that there are real stakes and i'm you
know i'm trying to win i'm trying to
avoid that 14 year old you know just
mopping the floor with me
and
because i treat it as practice i get
this like real world meditative thing
over and over of when i most every
impulse in my being is to heighten this
detention or to tenses to clench
i actually practice letting go relaxing
being more effortless finding flow and
it's been huge so in moments
being on stage it is literally i'll
think about playing video games as i'm
walking on to speak to you know three
thousand four thousand people and it's
like ah relax expand
it's uh it's that's interesting
because i was gonna ask you the question
can you see that map out into other
contexts the training that you're doing
on the couch
playing that first person shooter shows
up on stage it shows up on video and
it does it shows up everywhere do you um
so i know in the book you talk about
flow
how do you instigate flow how do you
trigger that is that something that you
think about or is that just you've got
so many hours now that it just happens
for certain things completely when i go
on stage i get butterflies
and really still i can't believe i'm
actually asking you that because
people think that about me but i'm
actually surprised you are
so at ease on stage
yeah
so you know what it is is as soon as i
get on stage i get triggered because i
put my focus on service because i can't
i can't feel fear
and focus on
on them at the same time and also
those stakes are very high like in your
video game whether they're real or
they're imagined my stakes are i
remember being in that audience 25 plus
years ago and how a speaker changed my
life and
and i'm talking to that person and i put
my mind in there even before going on
stage to put my
my mind at ease i'll go around and sit
in various chairs if i have permission
and time to do that so i could see it
from their point of view and i actually
go through like a video game in my mind
like this little mental rehearsal as if
that i would see myself performing from
their point of view and i don't know
what it does but it it paints uh
an environment for me to when i'm on
stage to be able to see it from their
perspective and hopefully be a better
teacher because of it um see from
different points of view but i i am
nervous right before i go on to the
point where sometimes i want to throw up
and this could be this could be even and
these are just triggers and i know this
is something i'm personally working on
but it i feel a moral obligation based i
swear to god in deepness of my soul i'm
thinking like shame on me if i don't go
out there and do the best that i can and
i let these people down who paid good
money who pay you know who are investing
their time to be there and maybe there's
one person that's really their life
depends on something that i that i'm
gonna say whether that's true or not i
put the stakes up there much like a 14
year old kid that i might be playing
video games on and i want to level up so
but it is much like a video game i i
grew up playing video games as a kid um
i i had a lot of escapism you know
because i i felt like i was deficient in
so many ways
um and so comic books i would escape
video games but not video games like
today i honestly haven't embraced
anything in this generation because the
one time i did with my nephew it was
just i couldn't keep up i just couldn't
and but i grew up playing video games
and right after high school taking the
bus to nathan's hot dogs and putting in
you know quarters upon quarters growing
up on like atari and coleco vision and
playing zelda and solving those problems
because it would take me out of my world
and that was more real for me even the
metaphor of dungeons and dragons i don't
know if you ever indulge in it it's not
a video game it was just like this
imaginary role-playing game but i had a
piece of paper and i had like attributes
like this is your strength on you know
numbers 1 to 20. this is my dexterity 1
to 20 or 18 or this is my intelligence
my wisdom and i found by going on these
quests that by gaining experience i
could level up and the dungeon master
who managed it would give me an extra
point here a point there and i would be
seeking treasure
um to be able to have that power in that
imaginary setting in that world
um but it's it's it's interesting that
if i can map that out and turn the world
into a game
and occasionally i'll i'll treat it like
that where this is i'm getting
experience points here for going on
stage or every single time i take a cold
shower or something like do something
that's difficult for myself and i force
myself and i don't back down you know i
built my career on that it wasn't always
easy when i got started because there
was no internet i would i would
literally rent space in a church or
somewhere put
flyers go door to door to door to be
able to do that but i but it was just
same the same methodology and mindset it
was just how do i serve this person here
this person here and it's just
i want to go back so you said um that
you were sitting in uh the theater or
whatever at one point in the speaker
said something that changed your life
what was that who was it what they said
so
it's interesting because there's this
there's this this is asian dude i
honestly don't even know who the speaker
was um but i was there and for some
reason i just i just got it it was just
it wasn't even it was what they said but
it was also how they were presenting now
this is over 25 years years ago and i
was just this you know this punk kid
that didn't know anything for anything
but i would um you know i was going to a
state school
and on the weekends i would get a bunch
of my friends together at college and
instead of going out drinking and doing
everything else we put money in to rent
a car to drive two and a half hours to
go to uh like a seminar and at this
seminar there was some guy that was just
speaking and for some reason i just got
that i had responsibility meaning that i
think some of the greatest speakers they
can inspire you that's one thing but if
you can identify with something that
they're saying and know that on that
cause i think
that that's a fundamental
like core belief that i have that i
created my whole life that that meant
that through the choices or some some
some way i am responsible and that that
was the message is that i'm at cause i
love that so we were doing an instagram
live the other day you and i you
actually asked a really cool question
which was if you could plant one idea in
people's mind what idea would you plant
and you said that that you're
responsible for your own life
which i think is extraordinarily
important extraordinarily important
maybe one of the most important ideas
that somebody can have why do you think
that matters and why do you think most
people don't do it
well i think having these global ideas
um or these
i i talk about in the book like seven
lies and it's basically these these
false beliefs these ideas lie again it's
an acronym it's an easy thing to
remember
you gotta give people the acronym man
come on i do because it's because
sometimes i only have you know five
minutes with somebody um or something
but a lie they really do work so my beef
with stuff like that is only that it's
so facile that
that people then begin to discount it's
[__] important right things that
rhyme which is just one example things
that rhyme appear something like three
times more true or i mean some absurd
stat where it's like the human brain is
so hungry for a mnemonic device of some
kind something uh that it it looks for
those patterns and when there's a
pattern it it retains the information so
i'm trust me i'm not denigrating i'll
[__] use an acronym wherever i get
one yeah and so anyway lie is an acronym
you use in the book what does it stand
for yeah
and it stands for limited idea entertain
and it's not necessarily true it's just
that something that we're giving energy
to or giving attention we're deciding in
that moment that this is something that
that is true the other thing about
acronyms and mnemonics is they're easy
to spread and my goal is for to teach
you know a mother so that they could
teach their spouse or they could teach
their kids because it's easy to be able
to repeat and it becomes memetic kind of
like this virus of
of the mind if you will and it goes goes
on and on and on but um going back to
these global beliefs i think that if you
change some of these core beliefs
there's a ripple effect meaning that if
you believe that you are solely
responsible for your life that you are
not a victim that you are creating your
reality then that changes all these sub
beliefs like for example that if you
aren't making the money that you that
you want to make or that your your
relationship is you feel like there's
turmoil there or you have some health
challenges or whatever if i take
responsibility it changes all these like
singular beliefs about who's at fault or
what i could do in that moment to
improve my health it gives me at least
my my my my agency back you know we
talked about it in an early episode of
impact theory or or inside west we
talked about like your sovereignty right
i feel like a lot of people give away
their power to their family to their
friends based on their expectations or
their opinions of you how you're going
to look and what failure is interpreted
you know as and it slows us down you
know and so this global belief that i am
responsible is a nice way of since i've
had that for so long then it's just like
i'm responsible and and i know i'm not
responsible for the economy and what's
going on right now but by me claiming it
then i feel like i have some power over
it
dude now now you're into a zone i'm so
passionate about this and it is i can't
fathom that this is a calm um
i keep wanting to say conversational
that is not the word controversial wow
it's it's a controversial idea i can't
fathom that that's true but when i first
started like becoming uh i'm gonna start
putting my ideas out of the world i
started blogging
and i wrote a blog that i thought
you can't imagine how excited i was to
write this blog i was like oh my god if
i had known this back in my early 20s it
would have sped my life up so much i'm
like okay what's the best way to explain
this and so i write this article called
it's all your fault
and i'm writing about like okay imagine
you get hit by a drunk driver and i like
do this whole thing
and the punch line was you decided to
get in the car because i paint this
whole picture of you stop at a stop
light
you pull in between two cars there's a
car in front of you cars on either side
your car breaks down your horn stops
working you see somebody barreling
behind you they crash into you whose
fault is that and i was like no one is
going to say it's your fault not the
insurance company none of your friends
your parents nobody is going to say it's
your fault but i'm here to tell you it's
all your fault and i was like man i'm
empowering you this is the most amazing
piece like of information ever like this
is so great because it means you could
have done something differently or you
can do something differently in the
future i'm not saying beat yourself up
i'm not saying you're a bad person i'm
just saying like you said retain your
agency people flipped the [__] out
people wrote in you're victim blaming
what the [__] like i can't believe this
is horrible this is disgusting how could
you i was like whoa
the this to me is exactly where people
get stuck in their [__] life
it is emotionally difficult to take
ownership of everything in your life
like you said covid19 is not my fault
but
if i retain agency in that and go okay
what can i do now to make a change to go
in a different direction now all of a
sudden i remain active i'm in problem
solving mode i'm not beating myself up
over in fact if i were to say the thing
that has really
allowed me to progress in my life is i
can look nakedly at my inadequacies my
failures my mistakes without feeling
badly about myself
if people could do that like if you can
understand oh it's all my fault that
doesn't make me a bad person it just
means i'm still in control right i've
got agency in this situation um that
would change everything but most people
immediately go to well if this is my
fault or if i'm in control or if this is
my responsibility or whatever
then somehow i'm a bad person
right and so how do you deal with when
you're because i've seen you on stage
and not many people have
the impetus to be able to say ask me
anything and you just you're dealing
with their issue right at in that moment
it you know some people feel very
vulnerable because they don't know
what's coming you know i don't ask like
before we had this conversation and i
didn't say like tom can you feed me the
questions
there's a certain level of expertise
where you go through it and if it's not
there then you're you're learning
something
and you'll be able to progress how do
you but it's hard for somebody who's
been who has been identified as
victimized this happened to them right
somebody came and they they murdered
somebody or they where they did
something to them and i'm not saying
that that it's not acknowledging and
saying that person is right in any way
but it's again giving you your power so
that you can decide what to focus on you
could decide what things mean you could
decide you know how to how to feel about
something because what's the alternative
what's it that you're just at the effect
of everything and maybe because i grew
up with these kind of challenges and i
was isolated and i was kind of
marginalized that i was always searching
for what we started with you know like
some from for some monogram of power
because i felt powerless i felt
extremely limited but do you believe in
then when what do people ask you online
or on your show do you believe in luck
then
so i i do and i think that acknowledging
so my thing is i i want to deal with the
messiness of reality so i'm gonna i'm
gonna talk in sound bites whenever i can
i'm actually [__] terrible at that
that if i had one criticism of me as
like a personality i am god awful at
giving short super succinct answers
but the thing that i'm really good at is
existing in the world of nuance so i'm
going to speak in like global
um very clear punctuated language it's
all your fault right even though i know
the truth is no of course it's not but
what i'm trying to get at is i want
people to take the principle away but
without speaking in definitive language
people get mired in nuance so my thing
is let the nuance be the advanced class
so
i'm
more than willing to say luck is real
100 very easy to look in my life and say
oh yeah there's if i hadn't met this
person like my wife [__] if you boil
down to how i ended up meeting my wife
she grew up in england
i met her because a friend of hers
happened to give her a brochure for the
school that i was teaching at in america
now if that whoever put that flyer down
hadn't put the flyer down or if the
friend hadn't seen it or if lisa hadn't
been complaining and saying she wanted
more technical skills any any piece of
that chain breaks down and i'm either
not married or i'm married to somebody
else and my life could be radically
different that was luck i do [__] about
that but at the same time
i was prepared and everything after that
right all the energy that i put in from
the time i was an early teenager into
being a high level communicator that
could have a good relationship i
literally thought about that my
nightmare at the age of 14 was being in
a loveless marriage so i was constantly
researching communication like
how do you do this how do you have a
functioning relationship like all of
that was really important to me so i'm
putting in you know my 10 000 hours
around relationships around
communication around understanding
myself like all of that so yes this
moment of luck happens my wife happens
to cross my path but in that moment i
was prepared to make the most of it so
my thing is yeah sure luck exists yes
bad fortune exists yes [__] is going to
happen to you yes kova 19 who the [__]
would have thought the number of people
jim that are going to go the [__] out of
business because of kova 19 is
crazy now i as a business owner i could
be thinking about that like whoa like
this is going to be a level of
disruption or somebody that has money
tied up in economic financial vehicles
what the [__] is going to happen to all
that right am i about to go broke it's
like cool i could spend my time
threading over that or i could say
oh jim
one thing i know is if i keep my mind in
the right place and i'm looking for the
opportunity then i'll take advantage of
the opportunity so one person sees covet
19 as lucky oh my god can you believe i
heard noah kagan talking about hey boys
and girls right now there's going to be
a wealth transfer the people that
understand how to leverage covet 19 will
win and their [__] fortunes will be
made other people are going to panic
they won't see the opportunities and
this is going to destroy them who's
lucky right is it redlock or is it
yes circumstances are random there's so
many things that we can't control
but
if you've prepared right if you come as
i say seeking power right the ability to
close your eyes imagine a better world
open your eyes get the skills you need
to execute against it if you have the
skill set to deal with something like
this luck becomes irrelevant it really
becomes a question of skill set um the
best thing i heard about luck
i forget the guy's name who said this
but he said luck is like a bus and
another one is always coming along but
you have to have the fair to be able to
get on and the fair is your skill set
i love that because right now with all
those businesses that you mentioned that
went out of business
it doesn't matter doesn't mean there was
bad leadership or that that entrepreneur
didn't have you know amazing skill sets
it's just who could have predicted
this happening at this at this time and
at the same time taking you know control
and responsibility because it's not
about truth it's what we decide in that
moment that either it's going to empower
us to be able to move forward or make us
shrink
and just kind of curl up and what do you
mean it's not about truth because that
that is something i think i agree with
violently
yes so i believe that when we're going
back to luck again
that it's yes there's some these people
maybe that are unlucky all these
businesses that are going out of
business but it doesn't mean that they
weren't they didn't have great skill set
as a leader or as a business individual
but maybe you know through circumstance
who could have predicted what what
happened right and so is it true that
that i could have an infinite
memory the truth is i don't know but i
choose to believe that i have that
potential so that way i could you know
i'll do the things necessary to be able
to show up show up that way is it true
that is it absolutely positive that me
and my and my significant other she and
i are going to be together forever like
i choose to believe that's the truth um
because i'll work towards it it's not
that you know like even having
this is a little self-promo but even
having will smith on the cover like of
promoting the book with his endorsement
i had to work as if he was going to do
it otherwise i want to operate it as if
he he would say yes and his team wins
lawyers would say yes to that but it
wasn't true but i operated as if yes of
course he'd want to be able to do that
to support it otherwise if i believe
that that wasn't a truth i would never
have done the things in the level of
intensity and the follow-through if if
it wasn't so i chose to believe that and
am i disappointed sometimes when those
things don't work out yes for the moment
but then i always feel like i choose to
believe that in some way this is serving
me you know and that's my choice to
believe
what happens to be true at that moment
yeah i'm obsessed with that that concept
and the reason i'm obsessed with it is
your actions and your behaviors are
going to follow what you believe
and so it's like yeah do i know that
we're all limited of course i know that
we're all limited but
the odds of you
making a mistake in your life because
you believe you're capable of less than
you actually are is basically a hundred
percent the odds that you'll make some
mistake because you believe you're
capable of more than you are are very
very low so
most people stop themselves they don't
overextend now race car drivers might
find themselves where they think they
can you know get a gap at 250 miles an
hour that they can't they crash okay
fair enough but for the most part that's
not where people are playing most people
they don't even go down the path of
getting better at something because they
just tell themselves that they can't
um so
like your book being called limitless
okay
i i will say it is pretty clear that
humans have limitations
but they're so far away from where i
feel like i'm at now that i just don't
waste any time thinking about where i'm
limited i try to put my time and energy
into just okay what do i care enough
about that i'm going to put in the
energy to get better and i do think
that's a fair question like are there
things that you want to be good at but
you just acknowledge i'm not willing to
work at it to get good and that and
that's that's the perfect statement
because it's really about about choice
you know whether we're going to be
dedicated to do that um i feel like at
some level maybe
physical things are sometimes difficult
for me and they've been like that since
i was a kid i was never the first one
picked to be on a team for something and
so maybe i was imprinted with the
you know that kind of inadequacy where i
felt like i wasn't physically capable of
certain things um you know taking uh
people to dance or to be able to do like
a martial arts for some reason i didn't
get it like other people get it and i'm
very conscious of
like watching other people and thinking
in my mind like i did when i was when i
couldn't read i was like wow that person
is doing it so much better and i really
and i know stuff and i practice but the
effort isn't getting the same kind of
reward as maybe the people around me but
there are definitely areas i mean there
are certainly limits i mean some people
can't bench they get really really
strong but eventually they can't bench
press a car
right so there's some kind of physical
their physics that that are involved but
i agree that most people error on the
other side where they they are on you
know
less than what they're capable of you
know when you have your your interviews
with david goggin and this has been
pretty pretty well established that
there's always another
i believe that limitless is not about
being perfect
i believe the idea of limitless is that
we could progress and advance beyond
what we currently believe is possible in
our self with the right commitment and
dedication and discipline and work ethic
to to that point the thing that um
shocked me the most ever i'm going to
look this up here um
is push-ups what do you think the
push-up world record is
for the number of push-ups
yeah god i can't believe i was right
about this so the number of push-ups
without stopping
without getting out of the push-up
position so i think he could rest you
know in in that position but uh number
of consecutive
push-ups would you believe 500
i would i would believe more just
because of the nature of the
conversation i mean uh for me to think
about doing 500 push-ups how about 5 000
would that be just absurd that would be
that yeah uh to me when i was like no
literally no one could do more than a
thousand push-ups i wouldn't have
believed it and the fact that it isn't
five thousand it's ten thousand five
hundred is so startling uh it's like so
in limitless you talk about the roger
bannister effect where it was like
everybody believed the four minute mile
but then he ends up breaking the form in
a mile and and people didn't think it
was humanly possible and then once he
does it within a year some un
like just ridiculous number of people
end up doing it i think a year later
three people break the four-minute mile
in the same race and this is a record
that had stood for all of human history
so it's like okay that's crazy one
person shows that it's possible and then
all of a sudden hearing that a guy could
do 10 500 push-ups like
that that's so crazy to me that it
really does show you
that it's crazy to me and i would never
have been able to do it because i just
had a belief that
i i didn't even think i had a belief it
just seemed so self-evidently true that
you couldn't do ten thousand push-ups
and it's just so bad and i can map out
for people who are watching this and in
areas of what they feel like is possible
to make in turn you know in income or in
their health or can people really have
this level of depth in a relationship i
would imagine that it shows up in
different places you know i believe i
have a core belief that
the
the most infinite resource
like on planet earth is is human
potential you know when we're talking
about the mind because i can't see a
limit on people's creativity i can't see
a limit on people's determination i
can't see a set limit on their on their
imagination
and i feel like part of that i mean
having to do when we're talking about
the power of the mind i feel like we
haven't even begun to explore the
possibilities of what people create like
i remember you know years ago when you
were talking about about your your comic
right and then i was like it was very
very early stages and but there was you
speak with such certainty that you just
like i'm like it's undeniable i'm like
yes this is this is obviously there's no
way i would bet against this guy because
of the certainty and then you know over
time through just the you know forced
effort and and call it will call it
whatever that
of course is of skill development and
dedication that it you take that you
exert your power
and you take what you had in your mind
that is invisible to other people and
you make it tangibly visible i have a
whole shelf of your books right as
physical evidence and proof but that's
how the world like that that's how we
dent the universe right
for sure dude sheer force of will i will
say that that is the thing and i want to
talk about the comic industry and i'm
probably never going to get a chance
with anybody other than you uh so for
anybody listening if you don't give a
[__] about the comic industry trust me
there is a lesson here that is so
powerful it it is agnostic to what the
industry is this is talking about
disruption so i don't know how much you
know about the direct market so people
go by obviously you know where people
buy comic books but uh the direct market
is like this whole thing that came up
because uh basically the industry was
having a hard time making enough money
off of newsstands so in like the 70s i
think
people started building comic shops
where you could go and just buy comic
books now over time it's become really a
terrible business but um in the 90s it
consolidated down to one distributor a
company called diamond distribution so
you have all the whatever 2500 comic
book shops in america are being serviced
by one company anytime there was a
monopoly there's going to be terrible
customer service and so it just becomes
a very dysfunctional system
and
recently they
they made an announcement it's it's
they're not out of business but they're
basically saying we're not going to
distribute comics anymore now
there's only one distributor when you're
one distributor because of covet 19 when
you're one distributor says we don't
distribute comic books anymore you can
imagine what's going to happen to the
marketplace it's essentially going to
cease to exist
so it'll be interesting i don't know how
many stores will go out of business but
it's going to be a lot and if covet 19
goes on for call it two months
man i just cannot see the direct market
existing beyond that so now you can
imagine the amount of panic in the
industry from creators from store owners
from people who as an art form wanted to
exist and all that
if you though so the way i'm looking at
it is we just invested all this
infrastructure to make sure that we
could sell into the direct market and
this happened it's like okay cool this
is so much disruption whenever there's
this level of disruption there's huge
opportunity in there somewhere so where
is it and so we're going to change
everything about the way that we're
distributing the comics the way that
we're making the comics and i really
believe that this is going to kill about
80 of the indie publishers out there but
it isn't going to kill us now it's not
going to kill us for a couple reasons
one we obviously have the resources to
keep funding it even if we're losing
money i won't overlook that but the
other is that
it is what it is right like deal with
the facts the fact is diamond is going
to stop distributing comics okay so
like that that is a fact either i go by
diamond and i try to like take up their
mantle but it's a bad business for a
reason so i don't see that as the wise
move so then it's like okay well if the
world is this way
and my mindset is such that i'm looking
for the opportunity and i have what
you're talking about which is certainty
now one question why do i have certainty
two reasons one i'm limitless i really
believe that so i have the ability to
learn anything that i need to learn so
cool this is gonna get shaken up i just
spent all this time learning about
diamond [__] it it's out the window i'm
not gonna waste a second mourning that
lamenting it it's like that's not how
you create momentum
so set that aside i know that i can
learn this new thing
and at since i know that i can learn
this new thing and i know
get ready everybody this is one of the
few things that i can say in a sound
bite certainty is intoxicating now i
wish i'd thought of that i don't
remember where i heard it but it's
[__] brilliant certainty is
intoxicating and i was like ooh
i don't always feel certain
but i can always act with certainty and
once i develop the discipline to be like
it is better to go 100 [__] miles an
hour in the wrong direction than it is
to be uncertain
[Music]
anybody listening let that [__] sink
in you are better off running 100 miles
an hour in the wrong direction than you
are standing still why because when
you're moving you're encountering
information even mistakes are incredibly
powerful because they're so rich in
information
standing still doesn't teach you [__]
you're not gonna think your way to this
so anyway i hear this uh certainty is
intoxicating it's intoxicating to the
people around you how do i create
momentum by developing certainty by
knowing i'm better off even if i'm not
sure i'm better off
running figuring it out and then when we
hit a roadblock or we crash and burn i
just hey cool i know i can learn over
here guys we're now going in this
direction and moving with certainty you
get people behind you you galvanize
people and you can move but it's like
normally
in times of disruption people let their
emotions [__] spiral
and they never you know going back to
what we're talking about at the
beginning of this they're not able to
get their mind re-centered in the midst
of chaos which is like
when you can be calm in chaos you want
to talk about getting a group of people
to follow you be calm when everybody
else is freaking out
dude people are drawn to that [__]
and that that's a huge element to
leadership when you're saying this i it
for me there it comes down to a choice
because there's a quote in the book i
quote a friend a quota a french
philosopher and this is a quotable
so i don't have to pre-frame it every
single time that we talk about
um these easy to remember things but it
said um
life is the c between the b and the d
and some people watching are listening
think i'm talking in tongues or code b
stands for birth
and d stands for
the other side right death so c life
stands for choice
and i think certainty comes down to a
choice you know i'm in the midst of this
like everybody else you know my business
is affected however it's affected my
normal day-to-day business but as you
know i'm launching this book and i had
you know dinner with you just a couple
of weeks ago and we were talking about
this book and my main platform was my my
wheelhouse which is speaking and just
like when this
started happening in the environment
right coven 19 this one conference got
cancelled and then the next day another
cam one canceled and then another one
and then three in one day all of a
sudden in a matter of 10 days 20 of my
speaking engagements were cancelled and
they were all platforms for my book and
i have no control over that like i have
no control i can ruminate about thinking
about all the effort i put into setting
those up and all the team hours to be
able to to put together those those
speaking events and having books and
everything all these things available
and all of a sudden a matter of a week
and a half it's just it's just gone
right and then so but going to your team
where they're very uncertain they put a
lot of effort and energy and sacrifice
into creating that where we you know
because we're on a mission right we want
to build better brighter brains we want
to leave no brain left behind and so it
was a disappointment but coming from a
place of certainty and even even you
know we talked people suggesting why
don't you just push it off to the fall
and launch it then when this is when
this is over and i'm like no
people need this book now this book is
not just a book on speed reading and
remembering names this is a book about
giving people helping them manage their
mind to be able to optimize their focus
and their productivity when they work
from home to be able to be there with
certainty for for their kids in a world
now where industries and businesses are
going to business it's a book about
adaptation right and skill development
and i'm like you know when people have
this book it's it's it's permission for
them to a reminder that they they they
are in control it's it's when you get
this book it's like here here's your
power power back and even though i'll
take a hit for you know coming out now
rather than maybe later but maybe not
you know maybe now this is forcing you
know right now we're having this call
virtually i don't have to get on
on an airplane and there are other means
when you're put in a position where you
have to perform when you when when you
know what the stakes are for do for for
doing this so
that's interesting so
i want to know how you hold on to the
stakes this is something i get asked a
lot and honestly people should ask me
about it more
how in success like you you've dude
you've been doing this for a long time
man and you go hard
how do you stay energized and
enthusiastic how do you stay connected
to your mission
over decades
yeah so i it comes down to integration
for me and that that's kind of a loaded
word so let me let me kind of break that
down you know in the in the book i talk
about a framework for not only
accelerated learning but for accessing
more of our our human potential to turn
that potential into into power through
through action right in terms of what
holds us back and part of that book and
that framework these three m's
uh mindset and motivation and methods
you know in in motivation it's
interesting because i've had this
conversation with you and motivation is
a very loaded word right but i feel like
i'm motivated every single day of my
life because i want my my identity is
that when i encounter somebody i want
their brain to be better off in some
form and i'm agnostic if it's in a
podcast and a video and a book and in
however it happens i just want to leave
that person better off their brain than
when when if we didn't connect and that
came through a lot of trials it came
through a lot of suffering a lot of
struggling because
every single day you know i was
minimized i would shrink i mean my
superpower growing up was making myself
small right i would sit behind the big
kid in class so i don't want to be
called on i never want the spotlight
because when you feel like you're
damaged good you feel like you're broken
you don't you don't want the microphone
right and so part of that is probably
still in me at some deep unconscious
level in terms of the butterflies and
everything else but i know why i'm doing
this because this is it's not
certainly money money it plays a role
but if it was just about making a dollar
that would be a lot different than
making a difference because that at a
certain point is not as motivating for
me here's here's an example i'm not
public about this i meant maybe
mentioned it just briefly on one of your
shows but i have very my kryptonite is
my sleep and you you know this as a
close personal friend that you know for
the past 10 years the first five of
those years no exaggeration i was
sleeping 90 minutes to two hours a night
and and not even
um like solid it was interrupted i was
waking up nine to 14 times a night now
even talking about it
it's hard because i know i don't want to
be reinforcing that kind of reality and
getting pride or some kind of secondary
gain by oh give jim some sympathy and
let them feel connected or or whatever
it is that sometimes people go to talk
therapy and they're there for years but
but they don't change right because they
they're getting some of their needs met
from from something right and so for me
it was the reality because i had
obstructive sleep apnea and i didn't i
went undiagnosed and five years ago you
know in la ucla i went through a very
painful surgery and it jumped from 90
minutes to two hours to four hours i
couldn't breathe they took out my uvula
my soft palate you know my tonsils so
more oxygen could flow in i didn't even
realize it because then i had my parents
tested my siblings tested they all have
the severe apnea i would stop breathing
214 times a night and this is hard when
someone's on them on a mission and they
in there then they they know what to do
but it's just hard sometimes to just do
it because you're exhausted i mean you
know how you feel on one night's sleep
the next day you know lack of sleep the
next day in terms of thinking your focus
your ability to tackle your wherewithal
you know it's hard and so i i'm become
very very sensitive to things sensitive
to
light sensitive
sirens or sounds sensitive to negative
you know people are around me because
you know i don't have layers of
protection or resilience because of lack
of energy a long story but just kind of
paint a picture
you know for motivation i i never
there's never been a day that i haven't
done what i've done for 28 years never a
day that i took a pause for this even if
i'm on vacation somewhere i'm still
doing this because it's it's who i it's
who i am and i feel like there's a
formula because a lot of people they're
like around motivation getting myself to
do this every single day for 28 years
and call it motivation called drive you
know and it's it's a little bit
semantics but it's true like motivation
most people is a loaded word right it's
getting really excited in the moment you
go to a seminar you dance and you're
like i'm gonna make all these changes
these resolutions the next day we know
nothing nothing changes and so i think i
i found a formula that works for me
a three-part formula for sustainable
motivation like when people hear
limitless a lot of people think about
the movie right um bradley cooper robert
de niro
goes from zero to hero by taking a pill
all of a sudden his incredible focus he
wrote his book in a few days he had this
identic memory right and he he became
and he had a surge of motivation but
after that pill wore off you know 24
hours later he just went back to you
know baseline right and i feel like
there's a three-part formula for
motivation and i'm curious if you agree
with with this right sustainable
motivation for me is three parts it's p
times e
times s3 p times e
times s3 will get you there meaning that
if you are procrastinating putting
things off think about anything right
and also when we're talking about lies
of learning the seven lies there's also
lies around motivation like i think one
of the lies limited ideas that we
entertain is that we have to enjoy the
action like the only proof in evidence
somebody's motivated is they're doing
something to get progress towards that
goal right if they're not doing it
they're not motivated so we can that's
that's obvious physical up you could
observe that right you know like
objectively now
one of the lies that i i feel like i
learned also from from you
is that you have to enjoy that thing
that you're motivated to do like i know
because i follow you on instagram very
closely that you're you know you're
working out and you get up early and you
do it but i asked you one time do you
enjoy it and and the response you gave
me is like you hated it now i don't know
if you feel about that
like that now currently but this was
a couple years ago but you still do it
you know so nobody could question your
motivation because you're still doing
that early in the morning when you
dislike it so it's a lie that you have
to enjoy that thing like every morning i
take cold showers i take ice baths every
freaking morning right without fail i i
never ever miss it right i'll go cold
and i'll go warm and cold and warm i'll
go people watch me on instagram i'll do
five minutes in a full ice bath and i
hate it i hate every moment of it i grew
up in the northeast i hate it but i d i
do it because i have a reason so the p
in this formula is purpose like i
believe that like and it's not just
intellectual reason for for doing
something it's feeling it in in your in
in your whole self right and i have a
reason to do it because
i'm on this mission right and this
purpose right i want i went i want to in
fact positively impact one billion
brains right no brain left behind so i'm
very very clear so the mo my motive my
reason is there and it's not just
intellectual and it's not it's not just
pleasurable i i feel like the pain of
who i would let down if i don't do this
like i feel it because i'm that person
like i still feel like i'm speaking
right now on this video to that 18 year
old version of myself or that 13 year
old version myself you know like that 12
year old that was being bullied that was
called you know like names because they
weren't you know like it was weird like
in in school also there was only one
other asian and that
he was one year ahead of me and he was
valedictorian he was head of the debate
team he he messed one question on his
sats he was so upset and he retook it to
get a perfect score and then i'm coming
in after that and i'm like the opposite
side of the bell curve right and you
know and then pressure from family and
self-expectations you know but i'm
driven so i have my reasons pleasurable
and and and painful that drive me every
single day and after you do it for so
long you just don't know any other way
but that's the p and the formula and
then what i did was like scientific
method if i was going to build the
ultimate human being who's motivated all
the time without fail
is reason enough like if person has a
deep enough reason are they always going
to be motivated is there any exceptions
and i was like yes the e is missing they
could be missing energy meaning that a
lot of people
could have be so tuned in to their
reason and know why it's important to to
work out every day or to to read every
day or you name it right but they ate a
lot of you know crappy food and they're
in a food coma that might keep them from
working out or they didn't sleep the
night before not having the proper level
of vitality physical and mental vitality
could keep you from from being motivated
and then i went in back into my you know
thought experiment okay the person has
deep reasons they feel it for for
wanting to do build this business or
have that great relationship or that
great body they have unlimited energy
are they 100
every single time going to be motivated
and i was like no there's an exception
here there's something missing
s3 because and i'll tell you what s3 is
in a moment but they could have that
thing too big in their head like oh i'm
gonna i'm gonna build an entertainment
company and then but they're not
motivated because it's too big
right
and or it's it's confusing right and so
a confused mind doesn't do anything so
s3 stands for a small simple step you
know i realize that somebody's not
motivated they can have the reason that
the energy but if they can't break it
down into something actionable because
this is a big model a perfect
relationship i want to have i want to
meet my soul mate and just live happily
ever after right i want to have the
perfect body i want to build this this
million dollar company then that can be
too intimidating or too confusing or
unclear and people never take the action
so a small simple step and breaking it
down into how do you what's the what's
the smallest task you could do right now
where you can't fail that's going to
make give you progress and it's all
about energy management because think
about motivation it's energy management
it's
having a purpose and a reason gives you
clarity gives you energy you know the
things i talk about in the whole chapter
of the book on how to optimize sleep and
optimal brain diet and lowering stress
because chronic stress saps your energy
right it shrinks your brain right now
with all the fear going on this this
pandemic it's not just a physical
pandemic and people have their physical
hygiene wash your hands and social
distancing people have no known
strategies for mental hygiene right and
this chronic fear is like it it spreads
havoc on our immune system right this
whole area of psycho neuro immunology
how our thoughts could affect our body
you know stress levels and cortisol and
adrenaline not only does it shrink the
brain but you're right it shuts off big
portions of your critical thinking and
and you talked about it yesterday also
on the live there are parts of your
brains that determine how to feel about
something right so you lose your
autonomy because then you just react to
things and again you gave away your
power but for me
and i know this is field tested not only
uh
working with clients but also myself you
know when i have no sleep it doesn't
matter what you eat right it doesn't
matter if you're working out or not like
that's like the master energy control
center so for me i would always lean in
to
my practices because it forced me to
double down i think there's a gift i
don't know if it's true enough it's been
my experience where when people go
through struggles that there's a gift in
this like whether there's a gift of
what's going on right now true or false
i choose to believe it because then i'll
operate from that from that point of
view and that perspective meaning what's
the gift to me having learning
challenges and fearful of public
speaking well i got really damn good at
learning and public speaking because
that's all i do now for for for a living
right what was the advantage that came
out of this sleep deprivation experiment
for 10 years now much better is i could
tell you two things immediately it
forced me to double down on everything i
teach because i'm just i'm just
documenting and telling people what i do
right otherwise i won't be able to
perform at the level that i do and then
number two it's forced me also to be
very selective in the things i say yes
to like right now there's no one nowhere
i'd rather be no one i'd rather be
talking to right now because as we've
heard like like i'm so clear because
when you have a finite amount of energy
and wherewithal you know and when
vitality or bandwidth you don't say yes
to a lot of things
right and so for me i just focus on the
things that i feel like this i'm
completely here and wherever i am i'm
completely there
yeah i mean that's
extraordinarily good advice for anybody
and i think that in an age of
distraction
one distraction can just sort of sap
people's energy in a way that they're
probably not thinking about because it's
just sort of slowly draining their time
like i think that everybody feels this
overwhelming sense of oh i don't have a
lot of time but in reality they're
either struggling with motivation like
you're talking about they don't have
their purpose i'm not sure why they're
doing this so they're they're not
because i think energy comes in two
forms one i'm really glad in the book
and what you just detailed there is at a
biological level and i think that people
in our space particularly can can really
drift into like the universe and energy
like as some sort of mystical thing but
the reality is that energy is atp it is
generated by the mitochondria in your
cells and if you don't do things to keep
them functioning well then you're
literally not going to have the energy
that you need
the other one is sort of a psychic
energy which is
i'm [__] excited and so i get out of
bed like people often will ask me you
know how i'm able because i sleep
probably on an average six hours a night
roughly and
i i've sustained that for years i don't
set an alarm so what is it that gets me
out of bed one of two things stress or
excitement that's it like those and
admittedly sometimes it's stress and it
isn't something oh like i'm really
excited to go and attack the day but a
lot of times it's just i'm [__] amped
up about what i'm doing i have that
psychic energy of i'm looking forward to
something and that's something that
nature has leveraged is the reward
systems in your brain to get you to take
action so we seek delicious food right
because the to keep us alive things that
are calorically dense like the
the brain compels us to seek that out to
remember where we found it so it's you
know people can really get excited about
a bag of doritos or something you know
that that has been engineered to trigger
all of those psychological reward
mechanisms to drive you towards it same
with sex right it's things that nature
has made intensely pleasurable to make
sure that you do it now you can build
that into your life with things that are
ideas you know telling stories for me
that the idea that you can tell a story
to somebody that would help them shape
their own identity which will then
change their behaviors which will then
give them a better life than they would
have had had they not encountered that
idea again i won't give away your skype
name but your skype name is a reference
to a specific character and a character
type and it's like
exactly you know those kinds of things
seep into people's subconscious and
they become a part of who they view
themselves as and wrapping things in
that bundle of excitement is exactly
what moves people forward um so i i'm
really glad that you've talked about
that and people need to nail down their
motivation if they're going to
take the kind of action that they want
because you're wasting a lot of time
with distraction which you're not even
thinking about you don't even
necessarily have that sense of loss
because you're not so [__] excited to
make something come true that you're
gonna push through whatever you have to
push through to make it real
i i agree you know and then that's part
of it because once you have the
motivation you need to know you need the
right mindset because somebody could be
incredibly motivated and they can even
have the methods to be able to know what
to do but i think that they're gonna
when i talk about mindset for me
functionally it's this set of
assumptions and attitudes we have about
something right with what fall
underneath mindset would be
what we believe is possible what would
fall under mindset is what we believe we
are capable of what would fall under
mindset is
what we believe we deserve even somebody
could be very motivated they can even
have the right methods but they're going
to bump up to a psychological ceiling of
of what they think they're worth
financially or that or maybe they'll
sell even self-sabotage potentially go
go into that one for me so this is
something that i find really interesting
for a long time i didn't believe it was
real
and now i i really do think it is real
how and why do people self-sabotage
and that notion of like i think i'm
worth this how does that come about how
do people identify it and how do they
get rid of it
so so let's take relationships right
like if you had this meme or this belief
that you weren't worthy of being in a
relationship with lisa or having this
this wonderful marriage right it would
affect our behavior because then all the
behavior
is is coming from that one belief and we
would act accordingly just like if
people believe that
um you know that let's take another area
in terms of our health if they or their
memory if people believe they just had a
horrible memory they could be very
motivated
and they even know what to do but if
they feel like they're stupid or they're
not they're too old or they're never
there's there's they're not smart enough
that will affect them taking action or
even if they do the action that belief
like that four minute mile that they
feel like that that's real they'll never
be able to exceed it until
that belief gets changed right and so i
do believe at some level
so the framework and this is an
explanatory schema that also liberates
people if you imagine three circles
a mindset motivation and methods it's
kind of this is it's a venn diagram
right three intersecting circles
we have and you need all three because
what i what i wanted to do here and then
i'm gonna say answer your question is
the book initially was all methodology
and i wrote it you know cover to cover
and it was all the tactics that i teach
on focus on memory on speed reading on
critical thinking skills on study skills
and then when i when i read it i felt
like this is a great self-help manual
you know this is a great textbook on
learning how to learn
and our people can get results with it
very small percentage i feel like will
and that's hard to say out loud because
what's lacking there and what i added to
it it's really three books in one was
the mindset and the motivation parts
meaning that if you have the mindset of
what's possible and you have motivation
where that crosses over you have
inspiration and their mind people that
speak on mindset there's a great book i
highly recommend called mindset right
there are people that that speak on
motivation or books on motivation and
maybe where it crosses over you have
this inspiration you have inspirational
speakers you have inspirational movies
and books now where mindset crosses over
with methods
you have this thing called ideation
meaning mindset is what you believe is
possible what you believe that you
deserve it's all going on the mind and
methods are are how to do things you
know technically how to do something so
that's ideation right but without
motivation you're not doing any of those
things it just ideates right and
everything we know that ideas are are
free and they're out there and that i
mean really hardly anything what what
could mean more is where motivation
crosses over with methods because of
course there's a third eye not just
inspiration and ideation third eye is
implementation you're motivated and you
know what to do methods so that you're
an area of of implementation but the
goal is you're still stuck in that box
like i say this box because people feel
like now they're in a box they're in a
cocoon they're in a cage right and this
cage is 3d it's three-dimensional and
what keeps us in that box
are these three forces of mindset
motivation and methods because you could
have the greatest mindset everything is
possible and be motivated but using poor
crappy methods of marketing or they can
be old antiquated way just like with
diamond right like if if they don't
upgrade their their skills and their
competencies then they're going to be
antiquated right because everything is
being disrupted so if you use like for
in the book i focus on accelerated
learning because that that's my field so
old ways of learning all old ways of
studying
repetition so vocal you know all those
things that we learned all those methods
doesn't have to be upgraded but people
again you need all you need all three
because if you have the mindset and the
motivation and you're not using the
methods like you're building a business
right like the old businesses they have
the mindset that you know these big
corporations everything is possible they
have a motivated team that's very it's
very sustainable their energy and their
purpose but they could be using like old
television commercials or or billboard
advertise or whatever they're using
they're not they're not current methods
and so where all three of them combined
is that fourth i
which is integration that i talked about
in the beginning integration is just
like you're fully aligned and that that
for me is a limitless state and what
this model allows you to do it allows
you to to have an explanatory schema of
where you're where you're we where you
are limited where you have placed a
barrier or
a border around what is possible so the
limitation when you're not getting the
result you want in business or in your
relationship or in your body you can say
okay where where is where am i being
held back is it the mindset of what's
possible what i believe i deserve is it
an area of motivation am i not connected
to the purpose or the reason i'm doing
these things or is it my lack of energy
or do i need to chunk it down into small
steps or the method which is really the
whole process and the whole strategy and
it also becomes so it allows you to
pinpoint the area where of constraint so
you can get rid of that bottleneck and
upgrade your skills in those three areas
and it also becomes a role modeling
framework meaning that if somebody is
very successful in an area and you want
to have a mentor like you offer in
impact theory university right like real
mentorship from people who have done
this stuff then you can map over this
framework and saying oh what is their
current belief system that allows them
to produce this result in terms of their
mindset what do they believe is possible
what do they believe about the world how
is their paradigm or or their lens that
they're looking through that makes this
possible or you could dissect their
motivation how how let's list the
reasons that get them out of bed doing
these things or how are they framing it
in a way that that that taps into a pain
or a pleasure or what are they doing to
optimize their energy so they just will
not will not stop or what are the small
simple steps that they're taking or
methodology you know what are they doing
for marketing for leadership for
negotiation for building you know a mass
mass movement right and so it becomes a
role modeling tool also also well to
dissect and look at the world uh a
blueprint if you will
so talking about methodology there's a
story that you tell in the book i
actually don't think you told it in
terms of methodology when you're talking
it triggered in my head um about bruce
lee man you want to talk about somebody
so when i was a kid i was [__]
obsessed with bruce lee i read the dow
of g kundo i was obsessed with dragon
the bruce lee story um that that to me
is super powerful i was really excited
to see him in the book and the story
that you tell about him
um
winning so in fact walk people through
so he ends up coming back to or coming
back technically to america because he
was born here uh comes back to america
starts teaching to people that aren't
chinese which is like
massively frowned upon and then he has
to fight what was that whole thing about
and and what was the outcome of that
fight
so so bruce um and i is wonderful
because we had his daughter shannon lee
speak at one of our our conferences
recently on his her father's approach
towards mastery and learning and how he
had the you know all the books and he
was always you know always everything
was deep
deep practice deep work
but um you know culturally when he came
here
he um he was not a hundred percent asian
so there was some biases with with you
know the asian culture is he a mixed
race
uh a guy a small part yes
on one on one on one of his parents side
and so so so being accepted there
teaching in uh in america he wanted to
teach everybody who wanted to be able to
learn and the elders there in that
community basically said you're not
allowed to pass on this information this
is sacred should only be taught you know
in in our in our in our culture and our
community and he was like screw that
i'll teach anybody who wants to learn
right and and there they they gave him
an ultimatum basically saying well if
you want to if you do that
then then you know then there has to be
that they they challenged him to a
battle where they bring in a martial
artist deep in in in kung fu to be able
to fight him
and the basically the stakes were
that if bruce uh won he could teach
whoever he wanted but if he lost he has
to close down shop
and in that battle his and i've heard
this you know having dim sum with with
his wife linda is that he actually he
end up winning it took him about three
minutes to get the guy to give up
and uh but he realized out of that that
his current techniques and methodology
wasn't enough at that fight three
minutes is a long time to to be to be
added as you know he thought in every
bone in his body selling his body that
that should have been a real
knock down like fast fight and so it
made him reevaluate his systems and his
process and he formed this his training
called jkd
kundo which was an integration of the
things that worked it's kind of the
approach where he's not emotionally
attached to
to ideology or one methodology he would
create an integrated mixed martial arts
approach and he would take you know
techniques and tools from fencing and
western boxing and wing chun because all
he cared about was what got the results
not with rules and and trophies but like
real results on on the street and he
built it from there
for kids growing up today this is and
look i am not a martial arts historian
by any stretch of the imagination but i
have enough context to say this is
really radical this is pre-mma like mma
for anybody that knows the the early
days of the ufc like ufc one if you get
a chance watch that [__] it was so crazy
because you had people that were still
purists you had the guy that won i think
the first year trained or maybe second
year trained in ninjutsu um
i know that brazilian jiu jitsu
obviously ended up dominating for years
and years and years until people figured
that out but you had a lot of purists
people that fought in a single style and
it wasn't really mixed martial arts for
a long time and so bruce lee's coming in
when it was like ultra dogmatic like you
were karate for instance to get your
black belt you weren't fighting in you
know a mortal combat style you were
memorizing set routines and you would
show that you knew the routines and the
positions and things like that and so
for him to come along and say this
doesn't make any sense like in the book
you tell the story he wins he beats this
guy spends most of time just chasing him
around the ring trying to get him to
[__] fight takes him three minutes
which is less than a ufc round and yet
in the end of it linda comes in and
finds him with his head in his hands and
she's like how are you
negative about this like you just won
you you've earned the right to you know
teach and he was like because
my style is still so limited that the
fight drug on way longer my i think the
quote you get in the book is my
preparation hadn't prepared me for this
type of fight
and i thought that's so [__]
brilliant and so for a guy like that you
want to talk about intoxication of
certainty like to be so certain that
what you're doing is right to teach
other people to redefine the very notion
of martial arts not around forms and
tradition which of course like yo at
that time like tradition was everything
for him to buck that and ji kundo
translates loosely i guess from and this
this is from reading the tao of ji kundo
as he said it translates to defend by
attacking and i was like that's [__]
genius and he was like always trying to
minimize the number of moves it took to
beat somebody and so he was like well
instead of blocking you know a punch or
a kick what if you kicked it like if you
were to kick somebody's hand away or
kick their foot away and he was like now
you're doing damage in defending
yourself and i just thought whoa this is
so smart and i even as a little kid i
was captivated by somebody who so
believed in what they were doing that
they could tell everybody else no
because that was where i really
struggled like i wanted to fit in i
wanted to be liked i wanted to follow
the rules and be a good boy i am by
nature a rule follower and so for me to
become an entrepreneur one of the first
things i had to do was like break out of
the notion that we have to follow these
rules and and i found myself intoxicated
by people like bruce lee who were like
[__] that the rules don't apply to me
i'm gonna do what works and an obsession
with efficiency
man if you want to win to to be obsessed
with what works is
the only obsession to have
and also freeing yourself and liberating
yourself from the critics and
expectations and the old dogma
because you know if we just if we buy
into those kind of opinions we just fuel
fuel that and you know you'll lose your
drive if you're being fueled by other
people's expectations and and opinions
and you know this is so freeing yourself
from the concern of others i think you
know i talk about the lies and freeing
yourself from from other people's you
know like looking bad and and failure is
a mistake or it's the opposite of
success as opposed to it being part of
part of success
right so i don't want to talk out of
class but um
i want to have dim sum with linda lee
what what is she like like i'm intrigued
by the type of person again this is what
the 60s i think when they got together
um interracial couple would not have
been i mean assuming that dragon the
bruce lee story is in any way remotely
factual uh her family did not want her
dating him so she's also somebody that
doesn't mind going against trends like
what what what does she like
yeah so absolutely remarkable as you i
mean i've so i've had dim sum like i'm
sorry
i've had i've had dinner or some kind of
personal time with her a few times she
and shannon actually on his 70th
birthday took me to san francisco
and we actually went into the in
chinatown into the hospital uh room that
bruce was actually born and it was their
very first time ever visiting it uh
because that a few years later they
actually tore down the the hospital and
so it was kind of a very very special
moment
but she is absolutely she's absolutely
remarkable individual to be able to to
you know i mean her story in in in
dragon is is pretty powerful for people
who have seen it um
one documentary i like it's called i am
bruce lee
and uh kobe's in it and all these other
people that are in it about how they
were inspired uh by by this man you know
who really said reset the people's
definitions of what was what was
possible by his very existence of what
he could demonstrate you know both on
camera and off but linda is the kindest
individual
she
her and her daughter um run the bruce
lee foundation so we've talked about
opening up like a bruce lee museum
same with the stanley foundation which
i'm active in
can you imagine a stan lee
museum where you could go and all the
things that he is you know has
accumulated over time you know from all
the props from all the avengers and and
x-men and everything else but very kind
individual very wise um
and she's she's a good good martial
artist she studied with bruce and that's
how they actually met that's right i
forgot about that part
that that's really interesting man i am
so hungry to do a story
so i've been trying and trying and
trying to and
with every like angle that i can
to pitch them an idea for a comic of
course that i want to turn into a movie
but um to do a comic book with them
they've they've licensed the bruce lee
name out some other comics that have not
exactly been amazing uh so i'm sure
that's part of their hesitancy um but oh
my god like somebody
i'm shocked that i haven't seen that
documentary because as a kid like you
want to talk about somebody that i
wanted to be
oh my god like that guy there's just
something about
so
i don't i don't know that you and i have
ever really talked about i was really
hardcore into taoism so i for a long
time i identified the way most kids
would say i'm christian i was like i'm a
daoist and i read the [__] out of the
dao de jing i was obsessed with that
yeah like that that was my whole thing
so what ends up happening is and you
know for people that follow my story in
terms of what we're trying to build
they'll under begin to understand why so
i watch star wars and this character
yoda like just
[__] with me like there's something
about what he talks about that hits me
in a way you know i mean part of it is
that he's a you know [__] puppet and
so that's cool already for a kid um but
just the the wisdom i never would use
that word as a kid but it just it really
landed with me for some reason and like
do or do not there is no try you want to
talk about something that from the
moment i heard it right to the power of
your ability to speak in sound bites
it's like yoda was the ultimate [__]
soundbyte machine
and that one just really stuck with me
so he plants because basically yoda is
um
god i'm going to mispronounce his name
terribly loud tzu the guy that wrote the
daodejing so basically talks like him if
if you've read it you'll like the first
time i read the dow dishing i was like
george i see you i see where this is all
coming from so reading that i was like
yo this reminds me of yoda which then
immediately made me like internalize
everything i get way hardcore into the
teachings the philosophies
because it was sort of mindset before
mindset had a name
you know talking about how to think and
how to be in moments of stress and
pressure and be like water right and
literally bruce lee quoting the doubter
and so
then you mix in bruce lee and just like
that whole era of my life is um
is about that that
sort of martial philosophy and the irony
of irony so i actually studied martial
arts really briefly in college but i was
so emotionally weak dude the first time
i got hurt i just quit i was like whoa
like this is real you could really
[__] get injured and
i'm so so so sad
that i didn't stick with it because it
was a period in my life where um
it would have just been perfect because
it you know i'm there i'm on campus it's
college you like walk 10 feet and you're
you know in the place where you're um
studying
and i was just too weak man it's it's
it's a sadness i've thought about doing
it do you know who um for us a hobby is
all right so do you know george st
pierre i don't know if you follow mma at
all so george st pierre one of the
greatest fighters ever to live so um his
trainer is a guy named george
uh for us the hobby and i went and
trained for exactly one session with for
ross for us is one of the most
extraordinary humans i've ever met he is
a modern day bruce lee this guy is a
[__] philosopher extreme
yeah [__] incredible this guy anyway
i trained with him one time
it was
amazing and of course i got injured
again and i was like [__] like just the
so i asked myself that this was
incredible but am i really willing to
put the time and energy into
fighting like figuring out what's wrong
with my physiology muscle weaknesses
whatever like it's all my fault right so
i know that there's no one to blame but
myself so i haven't done the things that
i needed to do to get my body ready that
i could go and train and take it
seriously and then looking at the amount
of time that it would take and it's
weird it's one of the few things in my
life where i'm just conflicted because
part of me really wants to do it and
then part of me is like [__] does it
really line up with the bigger goals
that i have in my life
i'm actually not sure what the answer is
it might be
better it might be a better life for me
if i did go and study and train but
there's that like there's there's
something there man and i i still find
myself drawn to the way that bruce lee
talked and the fact that he was such a
[__] badass it's
there's something there man there's
something to what do you think about
fighting i think about fighting a lot as
a guy that can't fight i i i think about
it a lot it's interesting
where do you come down on that
yeah um i'm mixed it like literally
split because the the truth is that i'm
i i watch the ufc and i watch
occasionally boxing and i watch all the
you know i grew up watching sunday kung
fu theater so i have this affinity for
that and then i also know the damage
that it could cause because i'm a brain
health advocate at the same time but i
love people competing and i think the
physicality of learning something you
know the discipline you know the honor
the flexibility i feel like getting it
into your body you learn things at a
totally different level it's not a
logical thing i think what made bruce
like fully integrated and you know this
amazing specimen of a fighter and a
philosopher i feel like
the physical mechanics of him doing
things you know drove in like a lot of
the philosophy you know of water and
everything else that he talked about
when he talked about limits and not to
put limits on any area of your life
because if you put a limit on one area
of your life it's going to pervade all
the other areas of your life i feel like
martial arts was a training ground for a
lot of that and the physicality i think
is important but you know i also agree
that you know if you're going to do
something you want to do it you know
world class
and having somebody coming over to the
house a few times a week it might not
get you there and then is it going to
divert energy and attention and focus
off of this you know this enterprise and
this empire that you want to build but i
i'm i'm
i have experimented with martial arts
you know as
you know the taekwondo classes as a
child i did
years and years of aikido in college and
and post um i did a year of jkd
um because i was so enamored it was hard
with my travel schedule to keep up in
classes because you know when you're on
planes and living in hotel rooms it's it
it interrupts that that routine but i'm
fascinated by it because i think it's a
great metaphor
for for for life that if you're ground
fighting and you know things like
leverage you know uh
conserving energy you know focal points
what's going to give you the most
return you know the elegance that that
bruce had in his in his in his style you
know in terms of optimizing his energy
and the the impact you know that those
are all strategies that could be mapped
out in in business or in relationships
or in anything else but i think the
physicality is is is important and so
but you know knowing that we have a
constraint of 24 hours in a day and what
we choose to put our our time and talent
and our mind behind you know there's
there's definitely opportunity costs for
sure but i i still watch fighting for
big fights and
uh because i like seeing people who are
absolutely world class compete and
and do amazing things
there's another side to it that i find
myself incredibly drawn to which is
the sort of jordan petersonian
notion of
a person should not be harmless a person
should be capable of great violence and
yet keep that in check
and it's it's one of those things that
like i don't feel like i am capable as
capable of violence as i would like to
be i am yeah i mean look i've kept my
strength up i work out and so i i
definitely have a modicum of strength
but when you look at
guys that are trained fighters like if i
see a guy with cauliflower here i'm like
yeah i'm not [__] with that guy like
there is something to that the the
ability to
to be
violent and going back to ferraza hobby
i had him on inside quest and he said
you know one of the reasons that i am a
trained fighter is i want to know if i
am showing someone grace if they're you
know [__] with me or whatever and i
give them the grace to calm down walk
away that it that it's a choice and that
i'm not doing it because i couldn't hold
my own and i was like [__]
like that is such an indictment of
myself right that like
man there are things that i let slide
that i'm sure i let slide because i'm
like uh i don't know how i would fare in
this altercation and as like when i
worked out that was a huge focus of mine
was just being [__] strong enough to
defend my wife like that was how in the
early days that was how i got in and i
showed up and i [__] pushed hard was
like i just it's not okay to be as weak
as i was when i started working out
and that notion of like making some
things not okay like it's not okay to be
weak and i think it's super important i
think that people overlook it and so
yeah like i'm i'm actually really into
the ufc i [__] love watching people
fight i love martial arts movies jim
like you're kung fu theater i was all
about ninja movies the only thing i've
ever dressed up for halloween more than
once and i probably did it five times
was a ninja i always want to be a ninja
like that was my [__] jam dude any
movie with a ninja in it i was like sign
me up the 80s was like ninja [__]
central i was about all of it
yeah
you pretty much just gave away my skype
name and this and this whole thing
it's i'm i'm the same i did um
there there's a there's a great teacher
a friend of mine named tim larkin and
he's out in vegas and he created
something called
target focused training
and you know it's controversial because
he talks about not only the physicality
of protecting yourself and loved ones
you know because he's he's world class
hall of fame cover black belt magazine
as you know instructor but you know but
it could cause real physical harm or
even you know extended harm or or death
and it's controversial because it's he
talks about the psychology of violence
and how
how people predators don't follow the
same social norms and i remember
watching videos with him where these the
people the predators they don't abide by
the same
the same social norms as we do and they
take advantage of those and there's i
remember watching this video that just
horrified me it was um
the uh it was a police officer cam you
know
a police
woman she pulls over this guy and you
see the cam from her car
and you know she's going there and
she's approaching the car and in there
the is the is the man and since the
suspect and and his little girl
and his little girl like like very you
know you know and she was you could tell
she was having cons you know restraint
because she didn't want to
you know break any kind of social rules
in front of her you know his daughter
and and and and this man just beat her
and beat her you know because she had
that that that you know those those
those rules you know and another another
book like the good the gift of fear uh
the background if you if you're familiar
with that book talks about about
especially for women to be able to trust
their instincts that fear is actually a
trigger that that that part of you some
unconscious is picking up but sometimes
men or women we suppress it and we don't
trust that fear uh because we're picking
up something that our conscious mind is
not picking up and we you know we feel
like something's there and then
something happens and it's it's a whole
great book called the gift of fear
where you actually fear is actually a
resource for you and a signal to prepare
or
and so uh some some great resources
there and i would love to connect you
with the with these individuals like
like tim it will it'll change your
framework about because he really gets
into that again the psychology and the
drive of protecting yourself and the
consequence of not being able to do so
you know i remember i did six months
straight of krav maga right you know
what they trained like israel like my
army to be able to do and after six
months i just couldn't do it i think it
was very very effective but you would
have to put yourself in this angry like
for me it was maybe i the way i learned
it in this angry state where you're just
destroying whatever's in front of you
but i you know for me i needed to
self-experiment with it so i i train in
in various methodologies i'm not
world-class in any of them but i needed
to feel what what what feels right for
me
right but it was but i i would go into
like a in my mind to just keep on going
and until something is destroyed you
know it took me places where i was just
like okay i got to stop this because i
could feel like kind of leaking into
you know other other areas you know that
temperature i actually love that [__]
like the ability to channel your
aggression
oh
my god i think it is really powerful um
in fact
in your book you literally quote bruce
lee i'd never heard the quote before
where he said people don't come to me to
learn to fight it was like they come to
me to learn how to express themselves
physically and whether they want to
express
anger or something and i was like oh
that's interesting learning how to
express your anger physically i thought
that was
really really a key thing
going back to what you're saying about
the social conventions have you ever
seen the movie funny games
dude you must watch this movie it is
[__] insane so it's um it's a remake
of uh a nordic film if i remember right
uh but
they remade it in america same director
and it's about like these sort of late
teen kids who understand social
conventions they know how to trap people
where the only way out of the trap is to
be rude and dude watching it i just got
the chills it's so unnerving because of
how easily they get you to give just a
little more a little more a little more
until you're in danger because there's
no way to say no and uh dude watch it it
is it is just an incredible movie that
starts with this simple thing of can i
borrow an egg and becomes this home
invasion it's [__] nuts you have to
see it it's unbelievable because at
every moment you're like yes oh god like
i know that you would say that you would
agree you would say yes and they're just
using all these social conventions
against you until it's too late and
you're trapped there's a another moment
like that in training day did you see
training day
oh god it's so good one of the best
scenes in [__] movie history when um
ethan hawk is in like with all the gangs
and they're like hey let me see your gun
and it's like oh god what do you do they
set it up so perfectly where it's like
no we're your friend like what's the
problem let me just hear come on man
like don't be a jerk and if you
say no and you refuse there then chances
are that they're going to escalate
because you know that even though
they're pretending that there's actually
this threat of violence so it's like
well if i don't give them my gun they
may just take it but if i give them my
gun then now i'm really in trouble oh
god it's so good it makes my palms
sweaty just talking about it like
in the movie as it was playing out i was
like oh my god this is so good social
conventions man you're so right they you
can really [__] with people just by
knowing going back to the whole like you
have to be in a place where you can
break rules where you can say no [__]
that i'm not giving you my gun what are
you talking about like that makes people
so uncomfortable i don't know if i've
ever told you this before but
i because i'm a rule follower by nature
and i knew that to get good at being an
entrepreneur i had to like be willing to
tell people no i had to be able to be
confrontational like all of it which i
by nature i'm not so i would start
parking facing the wrong way on a street
because i was like yeah i'm so
uncomfortable leaving my car because i
could get a ticket and i would just do
it and be like the rules don't apply to
me and i know when people hear that they
think like i'm going to cut lines and
[__] trust me i would never because when
it comes to something that like
diminishes somebody else i
i [__] hate that i like to see people
get along and i have a you know value
system that i live by but if you can't
buck certain rules
you're
you will get trapped so easily by social
convention
so yeah that was
a very long tirade but that [__] like
gets me yeah super super amped up
and i think those rules and those
expectations or those norms they keep us
limited and a lot of what you know we
talk about you and i it's just about
again it's a quotable but this idea of
transcending about ending this mass
hypnosis
you know or of of rules or and it's so
interesting because in the book you know
i i kind of model loosely uh you know
the hero's journey right in terms of the
the call to an adventure and go through
your trials and you find a mentor but
when you come back it's kind of like
you bring that elixir that that
treasured elixir back to the ordinary
world just like neo does
in the end of the matrix right where he
gets on the phone and he's like you know
i'm going to show you know
people a world without these rules
without these limits i'm going to show
them what's what's really possible i
think that's that's why we're here to
show people what's
possible because this life that we live
you know are really the lessons that
we're teaching everyone around us and
giving them by doing so you become the
roger bannister or the bruce lee or you
name it for for your team you know for
your family
and and
you know it's a disruptive time too
right like the only people that are
going to make a dent right now by
following the rules you're going to get
those the same kind of results
but if you if you break the rules
intelligently but you i think it's
important to know the rules
you know and and then learn them you
know and then you could you could change
them
and
and lead to something better for sure so
speaking of disruptors man there's
somebody you mentioned him earlier and
you talk about in the book um
your boy stan lee
it's crazy how much of pop culture he
has given birth to his bananas and in
the book you mentioned something in
passing and i was like i wanted to call
you and be like yo you can't like start
the story and then not give me more
detail
you said that stan lee when you asked
him who's your favorite character that
you've ever created he said without
hesitation iron man why
that's so shocked by that why iron man
you know i didn't go super deep into
into why he did that you know but he
loved iron man you know he was obviously
in a lot of the iron man you know movies
and i have a hypothesis because you know
the real iron man was a drunk
the ian that he created was a vietnam
vet with ptsd who was a drunk [__]
and i mean obviously still a [__]
really cool character but
not quite the iron man that we think of
today with robert downey jr so the fact
that that's the character do you have a
hypothesis as to what it was that he
liked
oh i wish i had a great answer for you
on this yeah when people read iron man
the actual comic books he's a degenerate
party womanizing he's always drunk all
the time and he had his dark
you know but there's this dark energy
but so i think it made it relatable he
was extreme he was in he was an addict i
wouldn't define stan in any way like
like though that with those kind of
characteristics because you know he's
always there's always been this this
amazing
kindness and creativity
um
i don't know if i had to guess
and this is a guess
but if i had to guess it went something
like this
he was a real dude he did not have any
superpowers he was a [__] engineer
who had to work to create things and he
was flawed deeply and i have to imagine
like
we all look at stanley as like just this
unstoppable idea generator i mean it's
really really extraordinary if i end up
becoming a tenth of the writer and
creator that he was i will be beside
myself with joy but i'm sure that not
how it's not how he saw himself i'm sure
he struggled with all kinds of [__] that
was frustrating or whatever and
writing a deeply flawed character like
that who still ends up doing something
extraordinary
it's a guess but
you know everybody else like i i thought
for sure he was going to say peter
parker just because it's
like i had i didn't understand how
dominant peter parker was or spiderman
was until i looked at the sales figures
as a comic book it it isn't a little
bigger i mean now it's not but at the
height it wasn't a little bigger than
everything else it was dominant dominant
i mean just like the biggest thing on
the planet um so i would have expected
him to say that so i don't
that's my gut instinct is almost all of
his characters were
essentially given powers the x-men all
born with something peter parker bit by
a radioactive spider but iron man was
just a dude who engineered armor
yeah he was incredibly bright and
and i think there's apparently if i
walked you through my i took this cam
off this ca and walk you through my
hallway the original art that i have
there is is an original iron man piece
and batman
you know and the so those those two are
interesting because they they
they weren't born they were built
dude i have like behind
like batman puppies behind me and
everything but those but they weren't
they they mean they were maybe born into
wealth
you know but they had their hardships
there were there were orphans you know
like like a lot of superheroes batman
iron man wonder woman superman
spider-man you know all of these heroes
but um but they had a darkness
definitely and uh but but they also
built themselves you know especially
batman you know master of all martial
arts
and uh and the detective very smart and
savvy that way and just like that's
it's human and so i could appreciate
while i love the x-men and i love
spider-man certainly um but those are
the ones that i
you know
have definitely have an original impact
and even in the back of my phone
you know it's like it's like batman dude
i i am a total junkie for superheroes
and for sure
that's amazing i love that yeah
yeah lisa and i actually our first dog
was named batman
and
just uh yeah there's something about for
the exact reasons you just laid out
right so batman
had a sickness he was driven by
something and you want to talk about
something i can understand like
something that you want so badly that
you're willing to you know travel the
world and learn however many languages
and learn to fight and all that yes i
get he's a fictional character but it's
like
i mean that that
the ability to attach to a fictional
character through narrative to change
ourselves is like the defining
thing about humans that it defines my
business model it defines everything
i've given my life to which is you know
how do you help people make change you
you give them a character that they
emotionally invest in and then that
person does things and goes through
things that you then take and implement
in your own life um and for sure batman
is
you know for me it is
a
a character type that i think about so
often in my own life of staying driven
and staying hungry and you know
continuing to push when
everybody else has given up you have to
take something you know for him it was
being helpless to stop his parents from
being killed but you need that
monolithic thing that you put at the
center of your life that's going to be
your drive and one of the earliest
questions i was asking you today is like
how the [__] with all the success and
for as long as you've done it how do you
stay focused and your answer was purpose
right having that thing i mean part of
your answer i should say um but having
that thing that is just monolithic in
your life that's why i always tell
people man if you're not
accomplishing at the level that you want
to accomplish you don't you don't even
have to tell me anything else i'll just
tell you you don't want the vision that
you have of your life badly enough
you just don't like
focus on that focus on
building the thirst can't lead a horse
to water or you can lead a horse water
but you can't make them drink but forget
all of that put all your time and energy
into making them thirsty right and
that's what people need to do in their
own life like put all your time and
energy into
wanting that thing so badly that it that
it's an absolutely crushing need in your
own life and then all of a sudden you
will be far more resourceful than you
ever thought you could be
and i would say that i i'm personally
like evidence of your of your of your
business model like when i was growing
up i didn't have a lot of friends i
didn't have like real life mentors so i
would
i would lose myself in these kung fu
movies or these bruce lee movies because
these were the real life superheroes you
know the the i just was doing some
training for the wwe and i was like i
was telling them like it was similar i
was you know with with mcmahon's and and
everybody uh triple h amazing you know
but but growing up for me i remember
going to when i was about 10 years old
going to wwf at the local like coliseum
locally convention center where i grew
up and you know and ricky schroeder was
there and i'm dating myself like silver
spoons you know but you give me superfly
snuka and you have the iron sheik
but they were like you know dressed up
characters because they were like real
to me because they were these
superheroes and their stories you know
they bring out characteristics and i
would always i would indulge in these
superheroes like spider-man because i
felt like i felt his flaws and i felt
his awkwardness and i'm i what i'm
attesting to is when you're talking
about how you built a whole business
model around it i would identify and i
would learn lessons that i wasn't
readily available in my
uh physical environment right i didn't
have these these mentors or the or these
um these these coaches and
examples and so i would i would dabble
in fixing and i would pretend i was in
those comic books and i would learn
those lessons
and i still do today like i still i
still watch you know rocky movies and i
still watch the matrix you know almo you
know every and um annually and i watch
these these places and that that's
really where because superheroes for me
are people that are flawed but they've
discovered and they've developed these
superpowers whatever they happen to be
but they also represent
like hope you know for hopeless kid they
also represent real real help
you know and also the coming together of
these you know like here
my mouse pad you know the earners you
know when everybody could come together
with their own unique strengths you know
together on a team you have your
integrator and your vision or your
starter you you can do amazing things
and and so that's a big driving metaphor
on my life
are there are these fictional
superheroes that whether they're real or
not batman is real or not in my mind it
was growing up and i learned a lot of
lessons through it same thing with bruce
lee i never you know he passed you know
like a week before i was born you know
but i always felt this akin watching him
and this and this is interesting that
that documentary i am bruce lee is all
these people all different ages and all
different background ethnicities they
just they didn't even see them as like
an asian dude they just like they just
this guy just shattered their mind about
like what was possible like all these
bodybuilders all these sports athletes
all these hip-hop dancers all the all
the people and and so like
looking for those real world heroes and
so
you know that that that that i could
learn from and i can't wait to see as as
more and more books come out and
films and things that you could you
could
you know entertain people and that's i
think where empowerment is where
people's attention is where they lose
themselves for x amount of time in a
book or in a movie and afterwards they
go through that they feel like you know
they they they were the main character
and they were liberated at the end
you know and the future looks you know a
little brighter
dude so as you were saying all that it
reminded me of something in your book
which is the dominant question because
you're
as you were going you're touching on
what i think is my dominant question
i've never thought about it before that
was a really powerful takeaway for me
from limitless and
thinking about
will smith's dominant question and like
what my dominant question is what is
that concept of dominant question and
and
tell that story of what wills is because
that really hit me as being a [__]
amazing dominant question
yeah so i would say that
the idea here is that we have what 50 to
70 000 thoughts a day and a lot of those
thoughts come in the form of questions
and that's when we're thinking about
something we ask ourselves questions and
there are more questions that we ask
than other ones just like any kind of uh
you know
proportionally you know probably three
questions you ask more than all the
other ones combined on a regular basis
consciously and unconsciously and they
probably came at an early age because of
life conditions like i
i grew up feeling i was broken so i was
always asking this question
how how how can i how can i do this
better because i felt like i was such
below normal and such at a deficiency so
it shaped my questions right my dad left
to he lost his parents when he was 13
both of them for heart disease and
cancer had to move here and his dominant
question was all about family and how to
keep the family together because at the
age of 13 he lost his functionally right
and so these early influences shape your
your
are like these
these inflection points that shape our
thoughts and so um the example that i
use in there in the book was um the
initial one was a friend of mine whose
dominant question we figured out is how
do i get people to like me and that's
her dominant question and you don't know
anything you don't know her age you
don't know
her background you know her where her
job is you know what she looks like you
know where she lives you know any of
that but you know a lot about her
personality that if you obsessed about
the question how do i get people to like
me you know what's her personality like
what's her life like you know she's just
a people pleaser she's she's a martyr
she's always giving to everybody her
personality changes depending on who
she's spending time with right she gets
taken advantage of she's a sicko fan you
know all this stuff because you know one
question that shapes her whole reality
because when you ask a question it
shapes your focus even right now and i
just have to make this comment about
this mass you know fear
that that that's going around is just
it's not just this physical
like threat and virus it's this virus of
the mind where our amygdala is being
hijacked by fear and we just start it's
like it's like a social media algorithm
it's like you like all the cat videos
and comment out all the cat videos you
know instagram's going to show you more
cat videos and more cat posts right same
thing with your mind as you ask a
question you start focusing on that and
if you just focus on fear and everything
that's wrong in the world that's all you
see because your brain is always
deleting stuff because there's a billion
stimuli that we can focus on and what
gets through that filter that's not
deleted um are the things that you care
about things that you ask questions
about and so if you're just focusing on
the fear you're not seeing you become
very myopic on you feel like that's the
whole world and you're not focusing on
opportunity you're not focusing on what
you'd be grateful for you know or all
these amazing blessings and fortunes in
your life and that becomes reality and
so going back to questions how questions
dictate your focus
um with with will
we we're spending the entire day in
toronto so he flies me out and i help
you know actors do what i speed read
scripts memorize lines stay focused and
all that and he's shooting from 6 p.m to
6 a.m so we spend the entire day
together and he works hard right he's
like i'm like when do you sleep this is
so this is so insane because we spent
like 10 hours together and then had to
go to uh
to set but during that process we we
found out one of his dominant questions
is
how do i make this moment
more magical actually it was originally
how do i make this moment more magical
and then we were like can we imp like
and then can we make that even better
he's like yeah how do i make this moment
even more magical so the presupposition
is it's already a magical moment right
living from that place and i was like
wow that that's fascinating and then
fast forward to later that evening it's
it's winter time we're outside filming
uh suicide squad and his family from
west philly you know the song we're all
outside and we're freezing it's two
o'clock in the morning watching these
monitors and everyone thinks hollywood
you know this they think it's all
glamorous and it's just like so so but
it's but it's boring right everyone's
like you know hurry up and wait and
there's waiting and waiting and i
remember i was asking him like before i
was like how do you get ready because
i'm just i just i've learned so much
from just you know interacting with you
know these these high achievers i was
like and what in your mind how do you
get ready to you know directors just
wait make you wait for hours and he was
like jim i don't have to get ready i
stay ready i'm like oh okay
everybody knows his quote about being on
the on the treadmill if he's on the
treadmill with you one of two things are
gonna happen either either you know he's
gonna win or he's gonna die trying to
win right that's his determination and
one of his superpowers but anyway we're
freezing out there his family is
freezing and he starts bringing
everybody blankets and he starts making
hot chocolate for everybody and then he
starts telling stories and cracking
jokes but his life is a reflection of
his dominant question
how do i make this moment even more
magical and i believe the life we live
again are the lessons we teach other
people and he was living his question
and so my question for
for you and everybody who's watching is
what do you what do you think your
dominant question is and it's not just
one but it's just like what do you think
that primary question that dictates our
focus and your feeling and your in you
know what you're gonna do because it
deletes that question also deletes
everything else if i ask myself why am i
so stupid here's evidence here's
evidence here's evidence you know or or
why why can't i ever achieve this and i
find you know like answers answers
answers
how about what are you thinking as i go
through this is what do you think one of
your
questions are because it shapes our
reality
yeah one your book uses questions a lot
and i think that's really smart really
telling um so powerful man the i think
it was tony robbins said improve the
questions you ask and improve your life
or something like that again i'm
terrible at speaking in sound bites
so as i was reading the will smithing i
realized my dominant question is
different than that but i'll get to why
i was so enamored with his so my
dominant question is something along the
lines of how do i use story to open
somebody's mind
to like
shift into being basically a growth
mindset right i've never had to like
make it ultra concise but so that's my
my dominant question is around that what
i
worry about with that is it's at such a
high level that it's a great sort of
guiding light but what i like about
wills is that it's it's of that moment
so right now in this exact moment a
hundred different times a day i can lean
on that dominant question and when you
look at how he's gone as far as he's
gone it's due in no small part it's not
the only part but it's doing no small
part to his charm and i think that his
charm is largely born out of that right
going and getting blankets and getting
somebody hot coffee i've never met will
but i met somebody that i think has a
similar personality type
and um watching
that play out uh
of somebody where they're just
so
charming that you're like man you just
want to be around and sorry i should say
it's michael strahan so
michael strahan is one of the most
charming human beings i have ever met in
my life and i don't know if he has a
conscious dominant question like that
but dude he just makes everybody feel
like the center of the universe and
it's like he goes on he's going to shake
everybody's hand when he meets them
introduces himself it's like he's
ridiculously famous he doesn't need to
introduce himself everybody knows who he
is and yet he does it so effortlessly
and i don't know man it's just really
really cool and having something like
that that grounds you right here in this
moment versus mine which is sort of very
abstract and very high level
and doesn't influence how i necessarily
interact um it guides the what i build
and the companies and you know where
what i wake up to every day for sure um
and so it made me wonder like
because i think you even said it's one
of will smith one of will smith's
dominant questions so are there
different areas that we should have
dominant questions in like is there like
sort of a two to three limit like how do
you see that play out i i think that
it's
again the power of questions determine
our focus so it's
you know it's
quotable but questions become the answer
and that's why
i it activates that reticular activating
system that makes things appear right
like so even study skills
sats like even the basic test prep
courses will teach you hey don't read
for three pages of reading paragraphs
and then you know see what questions
they ask
look at the questions first so when
you're reading you're like oh there's an
answer there's an answer there's an
answer there's the answer where were you
25 years ago jim that would have been
very helpful advice
and and here's the thing a lot of people
when they read they don't remember a lot
of what they read because they have no
questions so in the beginning of every
single chapter i give them questions to
prompt them so that they can activate
their ras to look for those answers oh
that's the answer that's how habits work
right this is how to find more of your
passion and and and and these are the
best brain foods by asking questions up
in advance then i'm setting their focus
and so
what i would say is that we have
questions we ask about questions all the
time and there's certain questions out
of habit we've trained ourselves to ask
how to default and some of them are
empowering and some of them can be
disempowering and i would say there's no
greatest person there's not the one
question to ask because i'm sure there's
a downside if we look for it for every
single question because it forces our
focus and so it makes us ignore
something else
and so i feel like it's important uh
part of the process that every
great story goes through is a story of
self-discovery and
of self-awareness getting to to know
yourself um it's another set of skills
to having the courage to to be yourself
but also as well but asking these
questions about what's most important to
me in my life what's most important to
me in a relationship because you know to
know those values it's kind of important
even when you're hiring people to have
these these this understanding because
it would explain
why they do what they do you know what
they value most in life security or or
some sort of adventure or some kind of
uh you know ego promotion whatever it is
it explains their behavior it'd be
interesting to find out yours your
spouse's question you know what's their
dominant question or you know people on
your team what are they asking
themselves on a regular basis but i also
feel like we have agency again and we
are not stuck with the questions that
we've been using for the past x amount
of years and that we could reprogram our
mind you know by through sheer will and
sheer repetition even using little
post-it notes around your computer of a
question just to remind yourself and get
in the habit of doing that i'll give you
an example i'm experimenting right now
again now that i'm sleeping better on
the past this past year
with lucid dreaming lucid dreaming is
this process of uh being aware have you
ever been in a dream and you're aware
that you're dreaming very rarely i find
it wakes me up but i i know the concept
really well so the idea so the idea here
i used to do it very naturally as a
child but then you know with these sleep
issues i would never get into that rem
sleep and get that quality where i could
get those questions um to be able to
have those experiences and now you know
somebody was telling me that lucid
dreaming is now used for people to deal
with trauma to face fears in a safe
environment of their imagination where
it feels like it's really happening but
they could habitualize themselves to
their fear of heights or confrontation
or whatever in a way that they also know
that they're safe and be able to i don't
know the science of this is just me you
know doing thought experiments but one
of the ways to get into that that lucid
state is um is asking her the question
like 100 times a day is this a dream is
this a dream it's kind of like an
inception kind of you know moment or are
we in the matrix is this this is a dream
that the dream is a dream and then the
first time the answer is yes because
your brain doesn't shut off at night
it'll still you know have you ever had a
very intense day and you start dreaming
about that because your brain is
consolidating that stuff and working on
it you know we do teach in the book how
to remember your dreams because i feel
like it could be a source of inspiration
that people say and this is anecdotally
but you know that
paul mccartney came up with a song
yesterday in a dream you know
frankenstein came to mary shelley in a
dream the framework of the periodic
table came to a chemist in a dream like
a lot of sports figures like jack
nicholas he this is well you know
documented that he was shooting high 70s
in a real slump and he dreamt of
shifting his grip of the golf club and
the next day shot like 65 you know
remarkably better because all this comes
in dream elias howe created the sewing
machine in a dream so the idea here is
we spent 20 years of our life sleeping
three to five years dreaming but a lot
of people forget their dreams that's why
my morning routine i i go through it
step by step but how to remember your
dreams going back to lucid dreaming it's
kind of interesting because the power of
the mind
is like if you ask yourself this
dominant question now my dominant
question is like is this a dream is this
a dream i just kind of doing it for fun
but then you know the other day like
literally uh 10 days ago i was i
answered i asked that question in my
dream and i said yes this is a dream and
i just like and i didn't stay in there
for very long and you lose track of time
in there but i was able to kind of
influence my dream i'm just playing with
it you know right now i don't have any
scientific validation for this process
but i know the power of the mind it's
like
the night before have you ever had to
wake up particularly early for a flight
or and you had to set an alarm i don't
even work off an alarm clock but maybe
in the past where you had there's
something that was happening and you
maybe set your phone alarm or a clock
alarm and you wake up like two minutes
before the alarm goes off many times
isn't that an amazing power of intention
you set an intention that just is just
i want people to listen just think about
the power of our mind right now the
night before you obsessed about the
specific time and you wake up almost to
the minute of that like and now my part
of my ritual each night is before i go
to sleep and i go through this process
is i ask myself a question talk about
the power of questions because if i
could wake up at a certain time why
don't i use it to like do something more
extraordinary right to be able to solve
something that i'm struggling with
perhaps inspiration i did that a lot
when i was writing this book because i
would have certain areas that i wasn't
really well developed and this whole
limitless model came from me asking this
question because i was obsessed with why
don't people do what they know they're
supposed to do why isn't common sense
not common practice right this whole
idea and i was like i have all the
methodology i was like and then on my
mind i would obsess about it and then i
would have like these thoughts and these
reveling i wake up in the middle of the
night and i would just write them down
you know and that's how i came up with
the the 3m limitless model that became
birthed from me obsessing about this
question like what's missing what's
missing to make this complete what's
missing in this motivation you know
equation or what's missing and
you name it and i took a bruce lee
approach because i didn't i'm not stuck
on dogma because i didn't i don't have a
phd in education i don't have it you
know like a master's in education or
psychology or anything else like that i
literally out of force will to be able
to better myself pulled from all of
these areas right adult learning theory
and some brain science ancient mnemonics
you know speed reading evelyn i pulled
from everything like bruce lee because i
just wanted something that worked for me
that's all i wanted you know i didn't
want to do it for any kind of
certificate or
white paper or anything else i wanted to
save my own life and so i wasn't stuck
and i didn't grow up in that education
paradigm of this is the one way that you
could fix this one problem
you know like like people doing business
you know which is why it was so amazing
that you offer like in in itu like
living this breadth
of training that's not available like
outside of like you know ivory tower
kind of information of people who talk
about it but don't actually do it
like i i i would be a poor spokesperson
or ambassador or coach you know if i
didn't read every single day if i wasn't
you know remembering people's names if i
wasn't like living this to that's my
ability
no question
but livvy you do my friend and you
really put it in this book the book is
fantastic man um i read it cover to
cover thought that it was amazing i was
honored to find myself mentioned but you
actually if you told me i didn't
remember so when i came across that i
was like my man
i was honored to be included hilarious
to be included for something that i hate
uh but that was absolutely wonderful
dude i think it came together really
really well i think that the ideas that
you have are super powerful i hope that
people will get the book i think that it
will help them because it is so
extraordinarily useful the blending of
the three things
i think you're absolutely right is very
very powerful thank you for coming on
man really appreciated doing this format
with you um as somebody that i know
pretty well um
can i make a quick mention please yeah i
my challenge for everybody who's
watching this really is you know that
um that you do something different
because of it you know when i talked
about choice and the power of choice
whether it's that blue pill or that's
red pill it always comes down to a
quality decision and this book i want to
thank you for the support just
everything over the years
um because this is like a legacy because
it came i i was in a near-death
experience a few years ago and it made
me prompt and really put this made me
re-evaluate my own value system and i
and and that's how this book was really
where it was really burst can i can i
mention where people could get it of
course man please go for it it's
something very special at
limitlessbook.com limitlessbook.com
i want this to be the most read book of
2020 meaning that not the most bought
book because i don't you know that would
be a pretty audacious that buying a book
is very different than reading a book so
i want people who are watching this to
complete this book because i know what's
waiting for them on the other side
because i know what's in this book and i
know it's in you who are watching this
right now so what we did at
limitlessbook.com
is when people pre-order the book they
automatically get a 10-day program a
coaching program for me walking them
through the highlights of reversing
their negative self-talk
of of really hacking and un involving
their unraveling and unleashing their
motivation and i teach them real
strategies on speed reading and memory
so when the book arrives they're going
to finish that book cover to cover i
also included two bonus chapters that
i'll give people digitally limitless for
your team and limitless for your
children like how do you make your
children limitless and and make this
part of your culture in terms of
companies and how we're applying it in
companies like um like people know that
i work with and then finally the other
thing about the book is i created this
book club where i want you to finish it
so there's four sections in the book so
after you receive it we go live every
single week doing one chapter i mean one
section a week together so we read it
and then we go and say how we can apply
this here are some ways to be able to
remember this apply this with your
family so four sections four weeks one
month post book we all do it together
because i want this to be the most
finished and applied book of 2020
because knowledge is not power just
having a book sitting on your shelf
doesn't make you any better than anybody
else and i want people to complete it
and so
thank you for allowing me to talk about
it and this has been the most unique
conversation
like i've ever had on on
recording ever
and uh and thank you for for the work
that you and lisa do and of course man
you have a quote in the book i probably
won't remember it verbatim but um you
said
the
there's no difference between somebody
who doesn't read a book and a person who
can't read a book uh and i thought whoa
like that's actually a very good point
so wanting it to be the most read book i
think is is a is awesome also that
four-week course is worth its weight in
gold man so often people there's like a
just a big enough gap between okay read
it i kind of understand it i'm not sure
entirely how to put it to use in my life
so helping people cross that i think
would be super powerful so it's very
exciting
amazing thank you
thank you everybody go out and get it
limitless i can vouch for it personally
it's amazing uh it if you do it and i
was actually doing he's got quizzes and
stuff like that in it i was doing them
which i don't normally i was trying to
speed up my reading and just finding
like you said that venn diagram of where
those three things intersect is uh
powerful so everybody go get it jim
quick thank you for being here it was
amazing my friend and everybody thank
you for joining us if you haven't
already be sure to subscribe until next
time my friends be legendary take care
billions of brains really light me up
you know you know billions of brains and
minds coming online you know being their
best version of themselves
that's that's really
that's really the mission
is to change for people's personal
education system
and
how people fall in love with their
brains again